feat(docs):  Add aligned-cli readme (#1590)
yetanotherco/aligned_layer: docs/3_guides/9_aligned_cli.md

# Aligned CLI

The Aligned CLI serves as a interface for users to interact with and retrieve information from Alinged Layer. This document serves as a reference for commands of the Aligned CLI.

## Installation:

1. Download and install Aligned from the Aligned github repo `https://github.com/yetanotherco/aligned_layer`:

```bash
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yetanotherco/aligned_layer/main/batcher/aligned/install_aligned.sh | bash
```

> 2. Run the ```source``` command that should appear in the shell.
> 
> ```bash
> aligned
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. A source command will be printed in your terminal after installation. Execute that command to update your shell environment.
3. Verify that the installation went fine:
```bash
aligned --help
```
```

> ## Commands:

Reviewer: I would also add `--help` usage, for example:

## Help

To see the available commands run:
```bash
aligned --help 
```

To see the usage of a command run:
```bash
aligned [COMMAND] --help
```

- `submit [OPTIONS] --proving_system <Proving system> --proof <Proof file path>`: Submit a proof or (repetitions of a proof) to the Aligned Layer batcher.

>     - Args:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Options:
```

            - **default**: `0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266`
        - `--aligned_verification_data_path <Aligned verification data directory Path>`: Path to the location the verification data of the proof will be written after it is submitted.
            - **default**: `./aligned_verification_data/`
        - `--keystore_path <Path to local keystore>`: Path to the local keystore of the user's wallet.
        - `--private_key <Private key>`: User's wallet private key.
        - `--max_fee <Max Fee (ether)>`: Amount of Ethereum in Wei to deposit into the `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract to pay for proof submission.
        - `--nonce <Nonce>`: Nonce of the proof.
        - `--network <The working network's name>`: The Ethereum network of the Aligned Layer Network the user is submitting to.
            - **default**: `devnet`
            - **possible values**: `devnet`, `holesky`, `holesky-stage`, `mainnet`

- `verify-proof-onchain [OPTIONS] --aligned-verification-data <Aligned verification data>`:  Verify the proof was included in a verified batch on Ethereum.

>     - Args:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Options:
```

        - `--aligned-verification-data <Aligned verification data>`: Path to verification data file generated from proof submission with the Aligned CLI.
        - `--rpc-url <Ethereum RPC provider address>`: User's Ethereum RPC node URL. 
        - `--network <The working network's name>`: The Ethereum network of the Aligned Layer network the user is querying their balance on.
            - **default**: `devnet`
            - **possible values**: `devnet`, `holesky`, `holesky-stage`, `mainnet`
- `get-vk-commitment [OPTIONS] --verification_key_file <Verification key file path> --proving_system <Proving system>`: Computes the verification data commitment specifically [provingSystemAuxDataCommitment](../2_architecture/components/3_service_manager_contract.md#verify-batch-inclusion) from the verification data file generated from submitting a proof to the batcher.

>     - Args:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Options:
```

        - `--verification_key_file <Verification key file path>`: Path to verification data file generated from proof submission with the Aligned CLI.
        - `--proving_system <Proving system>`: Proof system of the supplied verification data file.
            - **possible values**: `GnarkPlonkBls12_381`, `GnarkPlonkBn254`, `Groth16Bn254`, `SP1`, `Risc0`
        - `--output <Output file>`: File path for output to be written to.

- `deposit-to-batcher [OPTIONS] --keystore_path <Path to local keystore> --amount <Amount to deposit>`: Deposits Ethereum into the Aligned Layer's `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract to pay for users proof submission.

>     - Args:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Options:
```

        - `--keystore_path <Path to local keystore>`: Path to the local keystore of the user's wallet. 
        - `--rpc-url <Ethereum RPC provider address>`: User's Ethereum RPC Node URL. 
        - `--network <The working network's name>`: The Ethereum network of the Aligned Layer Network the user is querying their balance on.
            - **default**: `devnet`
            - **possible values**: `devnet`, `holesky`, `holesky-stage`, `mainnet`
        - `--amount <Amount to deposit>`: Amount of Ethereum in Wei to deposit into the `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract to pay for proof submission.

- `get-user-balance [OPTIONS] --user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`: Retrieves the user's current balance in Aligned Layer's `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract.

>     - Args:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Options:
```

        - `--network <The working network's name>`: The Ethereum network of the Aligned Layer Network the user is querying their balance on.
            - **default**: `devnet`
            - **possible values**: `devnet`, `holesky`, `holesky-stage`, `mainnet`
        - `--rpc_url <Ethereum RPC provider address>`: User's Ethereum RPC Node URL.
            - **default**: `http://localhost:8545`
        - `--user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`: User's Ethereum address on the provided network. 

- `get-user-nonce [OPTIONS] --user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`:  Retrieves the user's current nonce from the batcher.

>     - Args:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Options:
```

        - `--batcher_url <Batcher connection address>`: Websocket URL for the Aligned Layer batcher.  
            - **default**: `ws://localhost:8080` i.e. `devnet`
        - `--user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`: User's Ethereum address on Ethereum Mainnet.

## Example:

> An workflow example workflow for using the Aligned CLI on Holesky would be the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a workflow example when using the Aligned CLI:
```

1. Deposit funds to the batcher.
```bash
aligned deposit-to-batcher --network holesky --amount 0.5ether --keystore_path <KEYSTORE_PATH>
```

2. Check your balance in the aligned batcher.
```bash
aligned get-user-balance --user_addr <WALLET_ADDRESS> --network holesky
```

3. Submit a Proof.
```bash

> aligned submit  --proving_system Risc0 --proof ../../scripts/test_files/risc_zero/fibonacci_proof_generator/risc_zero_fibonacci.proof --vm_program ../../scripts/test_files/risc_zero/fibonacci_proof_generator/fibonacci_id.bin --public_input ../../scripts/test_files/risc_zero/fibonacci_proof_generator/risc_zero_fibonacci.pub --repetitions <BURST_SIZE> --keystore_path <YOUR_KEYSTORE_PATH> --network holesky --max_fee 1300000000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aligned submit  --proving_system Risc0 --proof risc_zero_fibonacci.proof --vm_program  fibonacci_id.bin --public_input risc_zero_fibonacci.pub --repetitions <BURST_SIZE> --keystore_path <YOUR_KEYSTORE_PATH> --network holesky --max_fee 1300000000
```

Author: addressed! Changes to work from root of github repo.

# Aligned CLI

The Aligned CLI serves as a interface for users to interact with and retrieve information from Alinged Layer. This document serves as a reference for commands of the Aligned CLI.

## Installation:

1. Download and install Aligned from the Aligned github repo `https://github.com/yetanotherco/aligned_layer`:

```bash
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yetanotherco/aligned_layer/main/batcher/aligned/install_aligned.sh | bash
```

2. A source command will be printed in your terminal after installation. Execute that command to update your shell environment.

3. Verify that the installation was successful:
```bash
aligned --help
```

## Help:

To see the available commands run:
```bash
aligned --help
```

To see the usage of a command run:
```bash
aligned [COMMAND] --help
```

## Commands:

- `submit [OPTIONS] --proving_system <Proving system> --proof <Proof file path>`: Submit a proof or (repetitions of a proof) to the Aligned Layer batcher.

    - Options:

>         - `--batcher_url <Batcher connection address>`: Websocket URL for the Aligned Layer batcher.  

Reviewer 2: Add the common urls: holesky and mainnet

Author: addressed!

        - `--vm_program <VM prgram code file name>`: Path to the file where the vm program code (ELF File) of the proof being submitted for verification is written. Note, the following proof systems require a vm program code (ELF File) to be supplied: `SP1`, `Risc0`. 
        - `--repetitions <Number of repetitions>`:
        Number of repetitions of this proof to be submitted.
            - **default**: 1
        - `--proof_generator_addr <Proof generator address>`: An optional parameter that can be used in some applications to avoid front-running.
            - **default**: `0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266`
        - `--aligned_verification_data_path <Aligned verification data directory Path>`: Path to the location the verification data of the proof will be written after it is submitted.
            - **default**: `./aligned_verification_data/`
        - `--keystore_path <Path to local keystore>`: Path to the local keystore of the user's wallet.
        - `--private_key <Private key>`: User's wallet private key.

>         - `--max_fee <Max Fee (ether)>`: Amount of Ethereum in Wei to deposit into the `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract to pay for proof submission.

Reviewer 2: Add an example

Author: Example usage for `submit` is added in the section below this. Did you want me to make one in line here?

    - Options:
        - `--verification_key_file <Verification key file path>`: Path to verification data file generated from proof submission with the Aligned CLI.
        - `--proving_system <Proving system>`: Proof system of the supplied verification data file.
            - **possible values**: `GnarkPlonkBls12_381`, `GnarkPlonkBn254`, `Groth16Bn254`, `SP1`, `Risc0`
        - `--output <Output file>`: File path for output to be written to.

- `deposit-to-batcher [OPTIONS] --keystore_path <Path to local keystore> --amount <Amount to deposit>`: Deposits Ethereum into the Aligned Layer's `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract to pay for users proof submission.

    - Options:
        - `--keystore_path <Path to local keystore>`: Path to the local keystore of the user's wallet. 
        - `--rpc-url <Ethereum RPC provider address>`: User's Ethereum RPC Node URL. 
        - `--network <The working network's name>`: The Ethereum network of the Aligned Layer Network the user is querying their balance on.
            - **default**: `devnet`
            - **possible values**: `devnet`, `holesky`, `holesky-stage`, `mainnet`

>         - `--amount <Amount to deposit>`: Amount of Ethereum in Wei to deposit into the `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract to pay for proof submission.

Reviewer 2: add an example

Author: Example usage for `deposit-to-batcher` is added in the section below this. Did you want me to make one in line here?

- `get-user-balance [OPTIONS] --user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`: Retrieves the user's current balance in Aligned Layer's `BatcherPaymentService.sol` contract.

    - Options:
        - `--network <The working network's name>`: The Ethereum network of the Aligned Layer Network the user is querying their balance on.
            - **default**: `devnet`
            - **possible values**: `devnet`, `holesky`, `holesky-stage`, `mainnet`
        - `--rpc_url <Ethereum RPC provider address>`: User's Ethereum RPC Node URL.
            - **default**: `http://localhost:8545`
        - `--user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`: User's Ethereum address on the provided network. 

- `get-user-nonce [OPTIONS] --user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`:  Retrieves the user's current nonce from the batcher.

    - Options:

>         - `--batcher_url <Batcher connection address>`: Websocket URL for the Aligned Layer batcher.  

Reviewer 2: Add possible values

Author: addressed!

            - **default**: `ws://localhost:8080` i.e. `devnet`
        - `--user_addr <The user's Ethereum address>`: User's Ethereum address on Ethereum Mainnet.

## Example:

An example workflow for using the Aligned CLI (Runnable from the root directory of the Aligned Layer Repository):

1. Deposit funds to the batcher.
```bash

> aligned deposit-to-batcher --network holesky --amount 0.5ether --keystore_path <KEYSTORE_PATH>

Reviewer 2: deposit to batcher spec is in wei and it is using ether. Check which one is correct

Author: Fixed!

```

2. Check your balance in the aligned batcher.
```bash

> aligned get-user-balance --user_addr <WALLET_ADDRESS> --network holesky

Reviewer 2: It says holesky, but does not specify the batcher_url

Author: Fixed!

```

3. Submit a Proof.
```bash

> aligned submit  --proving_system Risc0 --proof ./scripts/test_files/risc_zero/fibonacci_proof_generator/risc_zero_fibonacci.proof --vm_program ./scripts/test_files/risc_zero/fibonacci_proof_generator/fibonacci_id.bin --public_input ./scripts/test_files/risc_zero/fibonacci_proof_generator/risc_zero_fibonacci.pub --repetitions <BURST_SIZE> --keystore_path <KEYSTORE_PATH> --network holesky --max_fee 1300000000

Reviewer 2: missing batcher_url

Author: addressed!

```bash
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yetanotherco/aligned_layer/main/batcher/aligned/install_aligned.sh | bash
```

2. A source command will be printed in your terminal after installation. Execute that command to update your shell environment.

3. Verify that the installation was successful:
```bash
aligned --version
```

## Help:

To see the available commands, run:
```bash
aligned --help
```

To see the usage of a command, run:
```bash
aligned [COMMAND] --help
```

## CLI Commands

### **submit**

#### Description:

Submit a proof to the Aligned Layer batcher.

#### Command:

`submit [OPTIONS] --proving_system <proving_system> --proof <proof_file_path>`

#### Options:
- `--batcher_url <batcher_connection_address>`: Websocket URL for the Aligned Layer batcher  
  - Default: `ws://localhost:8080`  
  - Mainnet: `wss://mainnet.batcher.alignedlayer.com`
  - Testnet: `wss://batcher.alignedlayer.com`
- `--rpc_url <RPC_provider_url>`: User's Ethereum RPC provider connection address. 
  - Default: `http://localhost:8545`
  - Mainnet: `https://ethereum-rpc.publicnode.com`

>   - Holesky: `https://ethereum-holesky-rpc.publicnode.com`

Reviewer 3: Nit: I think it should say either Testnet or Holesky.

Reviewer 2: Done
